Banking System Specifications Document

This banking system shall:
  1.	Maintain Savings Accounts
    a.	the system shall allow CD accounts
      i.	CDs may be opened in this system by tellers and managers
     ii.	CDs shall have fixed rates for a specified period (months)
          1.	rates set by manager
    iii.	CDs shall mature at the end of the period
          1.	notification printed for customer
     iv.	CD must calculate interest at specified times by manager. If no action, CD automatically rolls over at new interest rate
      v.	penalty for early withdrawal
     vi.	no money may be added at any time
    vii.	Key elements in a CD object:
          1.	ID of ownership
          2.	interest rate
          3.	amount
          4.	opening/closing date
          5.	maturity date
          6.	rollover date
          7.	future value structure
          8.	penalty structure
    viii.	CD Interface
          1.	Manager can open or close CDs
          2.	Manager sets interest rate for month and penalty structure for new CDs
          3.	Teller can open a CD
          4.	closing a CD
      ix.	The Database for CDs
          1.	shall maintain CD info to include but not limited to:
              a.	owner ID
              b.	amount
              c.	interest rate
              d.	opening/closing date
              e.	maturity date
              f.	rollover date
              g.	future value structure
              h.	penalty structure
          2.	allow initiation of a new CD and closure of existing CD
          3.	storage in a permanent media of all information
          4.	allow startup and retrieval from permanent media
    b.	the system shall allow simple savings accounts
      i.	savings accounts may be opened by tellers and managers
     ii.	savings accounts will have a fixed interest rate that is compounded daily
          1.	rates set by manager
    iii.	customers may add or withdraw from savings account at any time
     iv.	Key elements in Savings object
          1.	ID of ownership
          2.	interest rate
          3.	opening/closing date
          4.	amount
      v.	Savings Account interface
          1.	Manager can open or close savings accounts
          2.	Manager can debit or credit savings accounts
          3.	Manger sets interest rate on savings accounts
          4.	Teller can open a savings account
          5.	Customer can deposit or withdraw (if enough funds) at any time
          6.	closing a savings account
     vi.	The Database for Savings Accounts
          1.	shall maintain savings account info to include but not limited to:
              a.	owner ID
              b.	amount
              c.	opening/closing date
              d.	interest rate
          2.	allow initiation of a new savings account and closure of existing savings account
          3.	storage in a permanent media of all information
          4.	allow startup and retrieval from permanent media
  2.	Maintain Checking Accounts
    a.	The system shall allow two types of checking accounts:
        i.	“That’s My Bank” checking account
            1.	no minimum balance
            2.	customer charged $.50 per transaction
                a.	deposits and withdrawals both considered transactions
            3.	customer charged $.75 per monthly transfer; transfers include but not limited to:
                a.	home mortgages
                b.	payment of bills
                c.	movement of money to other accounts
       ii.	“Gold/Diamond” checking account
            1.	minimum balance of $1000.00
            2.	no charge for transactions if minimum balance maintained
                a.	if balance falls below minimum balance, account becomes classified as TMB account and begins accruing charges for transactions; can regain Gold/Diamond status when balance exceeds minimum balance
            3.	account earns interest on average balance of the account
                a.	interest rate is half of rate of simple savings account; rate set by manager
      iii.	Regarding both types of accounts:
            1.	Stop Payment service
                a.	Customer may call bank and give check number. Bank will issue stop payment and not pay the check.
                b.	$15.00 charge for each stop payment
            2.	Overdraft penalty
                a.	In case of an overdraft, bank returns check unpaid, charges account $20.00
                b.	offer overdraft protection
                    i.	customer may specify a simple savings account as an overdraft backup account
                   ii.	bank will move correct amount of money to cover overdraft from savings account (if there is enough) into checking account, then honor check
                  iii.	done at no charge
    b.	Key elements in Checking object
        i.	ID of ownership
       ii.	type of account
      iii.	opening/closing date
       iv.	balance
        v.	interest rate (if Gold/Diamond account)
       vi.	overdraft backup account (if specified)
      vii.	transaction record
    c.	Checking Account interface
        i.	Manager may open or close checking account
       ii.	Manager may debit or credit any checking account
      iii.	Manager sets interest rates on Gold/Diamond accounts through savings accounts
       iv.	Teller may open checking account
        v.	Customer may deposit or withdraw from checking account
       vi.	Customer may ask for stop payment on a check
    d.	The Database for Checking Accounts
        i.	shall maintain checking account info including but not limited to:
            1.	owner ID
            2.	type of account
            3.	opening/closing date
            4.	balance
            5.	interest rate (if applicable)
            6.	backup account (if specified)
            7.	transaction record
       ii.	allow initiation of a new checking account and closure of existing checking account
      iii.	storage in a permanent media of all information
       iv.	allow startup and retrieval from permanent media
  3.	Maintain Loan Accounts
    a.	The system shall maintain three types of loan accounts:
        i.	Long-term Mortgage
            1.	either 15- or 30-year loan
            2.	fixed rate, fixed payment plan
              a.	payments received monthly
              b.	if late payment, $75.00 late fee added to that payment
              c.	if payment missed, account flagged as problem account
              d.	extra payments may be made at any time, but no amount may be added to loan
       ii.	Short-term Loan
            1.	1- to 5-year loan
            2.	fixed rate, fixed payment plan
              a.	payments received monthly
              b.	if late payment, $75.00 late fee added to that payment
              c.	if payment missed, account flagged as problem account
              d.	extra payments may be made at any time, but no amount may be added to loan
      iii.	Credit Cards
            1.	debits against loan made with each credit card purchase
            2.	limit on available credit for each account
              a.	each purchase is checked to see if it will bring the account balance over limit
              b.	if not, purchase authorized, account debited
            3.	record of each purchase is maintained for each account
            4.	Credit card bills sent on first of each month, payable by the 10th
              a.	consist of finance charge and total of charges incurred that month
              b.	account holder may pay entire account balance; no finance charge if this happens
              c.	Payments can be credited to bill at any time throughout the month; finance charge calculated on average balance of bill throughout the month
    b.	Key elements in Loan object
        i.	ID of ownership
       ii.	type of loan
            1.	type affects loan term
      iii.	interest rate
       iv.	balance
        v.	last full payment date
       vi.	transaction record
      vii.	problem account flag
    c.	Loan account interface
        i.	Manager can open or close loan account
       ii.	Manager can credit or debit loan balance
      iii.	Manager sets interest rate
       iv.	Manager initiates process that sends out bills to all loan accounts
        v.	Customer can make payments on loan account
    d.	The Database for Loans
        i.	system shall maintain info including but not limited to:
            1.	owner ID
            2.	type of loan
            3.	term of loan
              a.	affected by loan type
            4.	interest rate
            5.	last full payment date
            6.	problem account flag
       ii.	allow initiation of new loan account and closure of loan account
      iii.	storage in a permanent media of all information
       iv.	allow startup and retrieval from permanent media
  4.	Maintain ATM Cards
    a.	customers that have checking or simple savings accounts may hold ATM cards for withdrawal
    b.	customers are not allowed to withdraw more than what is in account
    c.	customers may not make more than two ATM withdrawals per day
    d.	Key elements in ATM object
        i.	ID of ownership
       ii.	account number
      iii.	account balance
       iv.	number of withdrawals for the day
        v.	transaction record for month
    e.	ATM interface
        i.	Customer may withdraw from checking or simple savings accounts
    f.	The Database for ATM cards
        i.	system shall maintain info including but not limited to:
            1.	owner ID
            2.	account number
            3.	balance
            4.	number of withdrawals
            5.	transaction record for month
       ii.	allow initiation of a new ATM card linked to a checking or simple savings account and closure of ATM card
      iii.	storage in a permanent media of all information
       iv.	allow startup and retrieval from permanent media
